
Initialize empty Git repository
$ git init

checking status of changes weather they are tracked, untracked etc...
$ git status

placing all the files whose history has not been saved in the project yet on to the stage.
$ git add . (for all the untracked files)
$ git add learn.txt (for individual files)

Inorder to save the history of untracked files permanently in the repository
$ git commit -m "learn.txt is created to maintain notes"

Inorder to remove the files from the stage with out commiting it :
$ git restore --staged learn.txt

To view the history of the repository
$ git log

To roll back to some previous version, copy the hash code of the commit you want to roll back to
$ git reset 9d50e9b84f5b31ad572ba8a312ff6f644f562c20

Now the repository is reset to a certain version. Now the removed commits are in the untracked list
you can have them in the stash area and get them back when ever you want. you can also use it in cases like you have made some progress but you dont want to have it in the repo history so add them to staging area and insted of commiting it, stash them. they are saved in stashing area.

$git add .
$git stash

use $git stash pop to get those back and $git stash clear to remove them and you cannot get them back

// Git hub

Inorder to connect our local repository to the online repository
$ git remote add origin "remote repo url"
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/Kushal-QS/LearnGit.git

by convention, all the repositories ex LearnGit.git here in your account are referred as origin

when you run the above command, your local folder is connected to the remote repo. Now In order to reflect the changes of local repository to remote repository, use
$ git push origin main


To create a new branch
$ git branch feature -> a new branch named feature is created
$ git checkout feature -> head is moved to feature branch. all the commits happen here from now


Inorder to cotribute to other's projects, fork other person's repositories and you shall see it in your account. now this forked repository under your account will be your origin. and from where you have fored this repository will be known as upstream.

$ git clone "url of forked repository from your profile"
$ git remote add upstream "upstream url"

so when you have your own copy and when you made changes to your own copy of the original repository,
how do you make sure that those changes are visible in the main project? we do it with pull request. first we should push changes to online repository. To our forked remote repository the new branch named "feature 405" is pushed from local repository and will be there with changes.

pull request : I have a branch named "feature 405" which has changes and I want you to merge it with original repository's main branch so that every one can see the changes. here we are requesting to pull the code from our branch to original repository's main branch.

One branch can open only one pull request.

you need to force push when your online repository has different commits than your local repository

Inorder to make sure upstream's main branch and fork's main branch are maintained, 
Approach-1
$ git checkout main
$ git fetch --all --prune
$ git reset --hard upstream/main

now our local repository is in sync with the updated upstream repository. lets make our forked remote repository to be in sync with the updated upstream repository

$ git push origin main

Approach -2
git pull upstream main
git push origin main


